Add Router Dispatcher component (#996)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/development/components/router-dispatcher.md

---
title: Router and Dispatcher component
menuTitle: Router and Dispatcher
---

# Router and Dispatcher

The legacy Dispatcher and the Symfony Router are in charge of parsing incoming HTTP requests and finding the right Controller to return HTTP response.

### Front office routing

> The Front office controllers lie in directory `controllers/front`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Front office controllers lie in the `controllers/front` directory.
```

> The Dispatcher match a given HTTP request with a Front Office controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Dispatcher matches a given HTTP request with a Front Office controller.
```

> When you visit `/` on your shop you are being returned the Homepage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you visit `/` on your shop you are being returned the Homepage, unless you have your shop installed in a subdirectory, then `/your_subdirectory` is your Homepage.
```

> What happened behind the scenes is that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What happened behind the scenes is that:
```

> When you visit `/` on your shop you are being returned the Homepage, unless you have your shop installed in a subdirectory, then `/your_subdirectory` is your Homepage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you visit `/` on your shop, you are being returned the Homepage unless you have your shop installed in a subdirectory, then `/your_subdirectory` is your Homepage.
```

> 1. Your HTTP request hit the `index.php` main routing file that relies on the _Dispatcher_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Your HTTP request hits the `index.php` main routing file that relies on the _Dispatcher_
```

Author: No, this is past tense of `hit` verb, not present. And past tense does not require `s`
The full 1 - 2 - 3 list is written using past tense

2. The Dispatcher found the right Front controller - the `IndexController`
3. The `IndexController` calls the `index` Smarty view to be rendered, populated with PHP objects

If you send another HTTP request, the same sequence will happen
- Dispatcher finds the right Front controller
- Front controller builds the right response using a Smarty template and relying on PrestaShop business logic

## Back office routing

The Back Office is split between the legacy part and the migrated part.

> The legacy backend relies on controllers you can find in directory `controllers/admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The legacy backend relies on controllers you can find in the `controllers/admin` directory.
```

The Symfony backend relies on controllers you can find in `src/PrestaShopBundle/Controller/Admin`.

> The Back Offie routing match a given HTTP request with a Controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Back Offie routing matches a given HTTP request with a Controller.
```

Author: I saw I also miss the `c` in `Offie` 😆 
```suggestion
The Back Office routing matches a given HTTP request with a Controller.
```

### Legacy Back Office routing

> When you visit `/admin{x}/index.php?controller=AdminCarriers&token={y}` on your shop you are being returned the Carriers Back Office page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you visit `/admin{x}/index.php?controller=AdminCarriers&token={y}` on your shop you are being returned to the Carriers Back Office page.
```

Author: We return a HTML page, not `to a HTML page` ? 🤔 

I think my statement is confusing.
Maybe
```suggestion
When you visit `/admin{x}/index.php?controller=AdminCarriers&token={y}` on your shop, PrestaShop returns the Carriers Back Office HTML page.
```

Reviewer: yep, sounds better

> What happened behind the scenes is that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What happened behind the scenes is that:
```

> 1. Your HTTP request hit the `/admin-{xxx}/index.php` Back Office routing file. This file detected no Symfony route matches your request so it relied on the _Dispatcher_ to handle your query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Your HTTP request hits the `/admin-{xxx}/index.php` Back Office routing file. This file detected no Symfony route matches your request so it relied on the _Dispatcher_ to handle your query.
```

Author: Past tense as above

> 2. The Dispatcher found the right Back Office controller ; the `AdminCarriersController`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The Dispatcher found the right Back Office controller - the `AdminCarriersController`
```

3. The Admin controllers use a generic system to choose what Smarty template use. Generic templates to display forms and listings are available and the controller provides the structure configuration (for example it controls what columns and rows are displayed).

### Migrated Back Office routing

> When you visit `/admin-{xxx}/index.php/configure/shop/preferences/preferences?_token={yyy}` on your shop you are being returned the Preferences Back Office page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you visit `/admin-{xxx}/index.php/configure/shop/preferences/preferences?_token={yyy}` on your shop you are being returned to the Preferences Back Office page.
```

Author: Same ad above

Author: ```suggestion
When you visit `/admin-{xxx}/index.php/configure/shop/preferences/preferences?_token={yyy}` on your shop PrestaShop returns the Preferences Back Office HTML page.
```

> What happened behind the scenes is that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What happened behind the scenes is that:
```

> 1. Your HTTP request hit the `/admin-{xxx}/index.php` Back Office routing file. This file booted the Symfony the kernel to handle your request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Your HTTP request hit the `/admin-{xxx}/index.php` Back Office routing file. This file booted the Symfony kernel to handle your request.
```

> 2. Symfony found the right Back controller, matching your URL ; the `PreferencesController`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Symfony found the right Back Office controller, matching your URL, the `PreferencesController`
```

> 1. Your HTTP request hit the `/admin-{xxx}/index.php` Back Office routing file. This file booted the Symfony kernel to handle your request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Your HTTP request hits the `/admin-{xxx}/index.php` Back Office routing file. This file booted the Symfony kernel to handle your request.
```

Author: Pas tense as above

Reviewer 3: It's past tense `This file booted `

3. The PreferencesController calls the `@PrestaShop/Admin/Configure/ShopParameters/preferences.html.twig` Twig view to be rendered, populated with PHP objects

If you send another HTTP request, the same sequence will happen

> - Symfony finds the right Back controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Symfony finds the right Back Office controller
```
